With the updated Mongoose schema, let's go to our posts route and there to the route where we actually
create a new post. There we store the title content and image path,
now we want to populate that new creator field here too.
Now for that, I'll add it here and now the big question of course is where are we going to get the user
ID from?
We're not passing it as part of the request but it will actually be part of our token. If we go to the
user.js file in the routes folder, in the login route where we create that token, we actually encode
the user ID into that token
and if you remember what I said about that token in the last module, I said that this token can be decoded,
it's not encrypted,
so we can fetch that user ID from the token
and that's exactly what I want to do.
I can go back to my post route here and I can decode the token here to get the information which is
inside of it
but now that I say decode,
if we have a look at our middleware, check-auth, we actually do already verify the token here and the verification
method, this verify method actually retrieves the token for us,
it gives us a decoded token. That means that we actually get back a result which we're not using yet
but this result will be the decoded token,
so decodedToken, let me store that in a new constant
and now that means we can access the data which is inside of that token.
So to be precise, the data which we are encoding into the token, the e-mail and the user ID and some standard
fields which are always encoded into the token
but that is our custom data which we added. Now the problem
just is I don't need that data in the checkAuth method, I need it in my posts routes
for example, here in that route where we create a new post.
Now the cool thing is ExpressJS, the NodeJS framework we're using here gives us the ability of
easily adding new pieces of data, new fields to that request object
and if our middleware then calls next, the request is going to move on to the next middleware and it's
going to keep any fields we added to it.
So what we can do here is we can simply access request and then add a new field,
just make sure to not override one which already exists.
For example, we could add user data here,
that's a field which does not exist
but now I'm setting it equal to a new Javascript object where I want to have my e-mail which I can get
from the decoded token, there we're going to have an e-mail property because in the user.js route file,
we're going to add one here and I can get my user ID field which we're also passing into the token. So
I can also add a second field here which is going to be the user ID which is decoded token user ID.
And now with that, we're adding this to the request which means every method, every middleware running
after the check-auth middleware will get that extra piece of information
and if we now have a look at our posts.js file, we see that our middleware here where we try to create
a new post does run after the check-auth middleware,
so we will have that extra piece, that extra user data field available there.
Now with that information, we get everything we need of course.
Let's first of all verify that this really is the case,
so I'll temporarily remove that creator field here and I will actually return a new response here with status
200, JSON, an empty object just so that the save method doesn't get executed and we don't store that
post to the server because now I really just want to console log request user data to prove that this
is available and I don't want to save anything to the database.
So with that, let's save all the code and let's go back and create a new post
and again keep in mind, the image is going to get uploaded but the post is not going to get saved.
So here correctly, we don't
add the post but if we now look into our server side terminal, we see that this is that user data object
I was talking about,
so it is available.
With that, let's remove that return statement and the console log statement
and now let's add that creator field
to our post object we're going to create here and that creator will actually get the value we have
here, request user data user ID,
so this value. And this is a string
but keep in mind this will be taken by Mongoose and turned into this object ID object.
So with that, we should be able to store the user ID as part of our post.
We can prove this by saving this but also editing another route here where we actually get all the
posts, we do return all the posts,
keep that in mind
and these posts should of course contain the user ID then.
So if I go to the Angular code, into the posts service where we do fetch all the posts, then I can
go into my subscribe method and simply console log the transformed post data and
this means that we should see the creator ID there too
and now with that, we're trying to log the post that we get.
Now one important thing to keep in mind, we're mapping the post data here and we're actually mapping it
into a new object where we don't use that creator ID anymore.
So let's add a field here and we will need this later too,
so this is really important too, not just for debugging now.
So I'll add my creator field there and access post creator because we should be getting that information
from the server.
And with that, we can go back to our Angular app,
create a new post, test with some dummy content and pick an image here, spring.
If we now save this, we rendered a post and if we have a look at the posts here into this array, we see that
here we got a creator ID which actually is the ID of the user who created this post.
Now this of course is one important step,
now we got that ID here,
the next step which we'll take in the next lectures is to use that ID on the back-end to deny any delete
or update requests made by another user for a given post.